[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: I guess
just a little bit about me,
I'm jkup on most of the online things like
Twitter and GitHub and all that stuff.
There's my email address I love talking
about this stuff so feel free if you have
questions after the course or whatever
to ping me on any of those services.
For the last two years of
it was working at Twitter.
Working on twitter.com I got to do a bunch
of really fun web performance stuff there.
And now I'm kind of on my
own doing freelance stuff,
teaching all that kind of fun stuff.
I did just like Mark mentioned.
I wanted to give like a caveat
before we get started with
the class which is that they really.
Really do move very quickly
on chromed up tools, and
things have a tendency to move around.
And Google IO is just last week, so
there's a ton of brand new stuff that
just got launched about a week ago.
So this is, I guess, mostly for
people that are watching the video later.
It would be that stuff might not
be exactly where we find it today.
But for the most part they have
pretty consistent design patterns.
So you should be able to find a button
that's at least labelled the same as it
is today, it just might be under
a different tab or something like that.
Cool, so yeah I guess just a little
bit of history on things for
those that were developing before
DevTools will remember this.
But back in the day we didn't have
any kind of developer tools and
really we had two tools at our disposal.
One of the them was the page source
which is not super helpful to anybody.
But it's kind of cool you can see the
markup that actually gets sent down and
we still have that today.
And then the other for those that remember
developing like this are alert boxes.
And they have two big flaws for
debugging programs by putting an alert in
there, one they're horrendously annoying.
They take complete control of the browser
experience you can even change tabs until
you hit OK on it.
And two as you can see on the slide
they don't have any ability to
display complex objects right.
So if you were trying to alert something
and it was let's say a function or
an object it would just show
you something like this.
And then, I remember back in the day
you would put like a for loop and
you'd like iterate on the keys for an
object and try to alert those and anyway.
So that's kind of where we came from and
then, years ago, this hit the scene.
This is a hexie's Live DOM Viewer.
And so basically what this allows
you to do, I've have got a little I
got it actually still open here let
me make that a little bit bigger.
Is it allows you to type in HTML.
And then it parses all that HTML and shows
you this is kind of the first time you
were able to get a visual understanding
of what DOM is, what DOM meant.
Because you can only see markup and
then the document object model is how
the browser interprets that markup and
starts making all these objects.
So this is kind of your first
time where you could start
putting in tags or whatever.
And then you can see them
kind of coming in down here.
And you can even see things like,
if you don't set a header or a body.
Browsers will interpret and place one in
there for you, those tags are necessary.
And then you can do things like, you can
make like an H1, that says hello world.
And you can start seeing like
this real thing like that H1 and
it has this text attribute which
is hello world things like that.
So this is like our like first step
into having a better debugging
infrastructure ecosystem for JavaScript.
And shortly after that, this DOM Viewer
was integrated and Firebug came out.
There's actually the history's
like a little bit murky cuz as is
usual there's like a lot of
people having the same idea,
working on the same
thing at the same time.
But I think Firebug was the first
one to really catch on.
And it was a Firefox add on for
those that didn't use it.
And it's actually pretty
similar you can kind of see
these are like six pictures
really squished in together.
But not much has really changed
since Firebug first hit the scene.
The tools have gotten a lot more complex
but as far as like the general layout and
understanding that you have
these multiple panels.
And the tasks that they accomplished
have stayed pretty much the same.
It's also worth pointing out that
this class is gonna really focus on
Chrome's Developer Tools
as is in the title.
But there's basically the split now where
Mozilla has Firebug still supported
as an add on that you can get.
It also has it's ground up custom
developer tools which
are really really cool.
We're not gonna touch on them today.
They have almost all the functionality
that Chrome developer tools has.
They're missing a few things and
they have a few things.
Like they've got some really cool support
on like SVG Animations things like that.
And then they're missing some things that
are like more in the like debugging and
editing mode.
So we're gonna concentrate on Chrome but
I highly recommend checking
out Firefox as well.
So there's the Firefox dev tools, there's
Firebug, there's the Web Kit DevTools.
That would be like your Safari,
Brave browser all those things and
then there's the Chrome DevTools that
we're gonna be taking a look at today.
And again they're almost all the same
they should be pretty easy to navigate
because they have the same
kind of general layout.
I just find Chrome to be the most complex
and have the most cool stuff going on.
So it's also worth noting that getting
experience with the developer tools
can help you outside of Chrome.
And this is becoming more and more true.
So for the longest time for
anybody that does nodejs development.
There's this cool project
called node inspector.
And basically you nodejs comes
with a debugger built in.
And what this allows you to do is
basically open up your node app in
a version of the chrome DevTools.
Which is kind of cool so if you get used
to that UI clicking around editing things
like that you can do that with node.
Speaking of things have changed this week,
which are really exciting.
There's actually this
polar quest to node core
which would allow this like dash dash
inspect flag or inspector I think.
And you don't need anything else.
So you'd actually,
this is in a branch right now it
hasn't emerged into a major version.
But very soon you'll be able
to actually run a node app and
then type you know dash
dash inspector your app.
And it'll just go ahead and
automatically open in a version of
Chromium with the blank developer tools.
So I think these are like really
worth getting to know both,
because obviously web
performance is important.
But also these tools are becoming more and
more widespread as Google
is donating time to help integrate
them with other environments.
And the last thing I
wanted to mention on this
history ecosystem side is that
they have a really great API.
So a lot of frameworks build their
own panel of developer tools.
So some of the big ones,
if you do any ReactJS Development
they have their own DevTools.
Same with Ember, same with Angular and
then there's also cool things like.
There is an accessibility Chrome
extension which adds another panel there.
So the APIs really cool and
there's a bunch of additional stuff we're
not going to really cover in depth today
but just wanted to point out that
if you're working on a project.
You should probably check to see
if there's a DevTool extension for
whatever stack you're working with
because they're very well might be.